\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@setfilename formatting.info

@c valid Texinfo variable can be set to test only valid constructs.
@c in practice it can be used to output with TeX
@c  texi2pdf -I layout/ -t '@set valid' layout/formatting.texi

@dircategory Formatting @'e @code{@@ @TeX{}} test
@direntry
* Truc: (formatting).           The GNU documentation truc.
* @code{@@ @'e @equiv{}}: (formatting).  ``@asis{--- something}'' 
                           @command{cmd} @`a
@end direntry

@defindex truc
@defcodeindex codeidx

@include coverage_macro.texi

@copying
In copying
@mymacro{}
@end copying

@titlepage
@title title --a
@subtitle formatting subtitle --a
@subtitle subtitle 2 --a
@author author1 --a with accents in name T@'e@,ca
@author author2 --a
In titlepage
@mymacro{}

Insercopying in titlepage
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@latex
\DeclareUnicodeCharacter{0227}{\.{a}}
\DeclareUnicodeCharacter{1EA1}{\d{a}}
\DeclareUnicodeCharacter{2261}{$\equiv$}
\DeclareUnicodeCharacter{21A6}{$\mapsto$}
\DeclareUnicodeCharacter{2212}{-}
\DeclareUnicodeCharacter{22C6}{$\star$}
\DeclareUnicodeCharacter{22A3}{$\dashv$}
\DeclareUnicodeCharacter{21D2}{$\Rightarrow$}
\DeclareUnicodeCharacter{2264}{$\leq$}
\DeclareUnicodeCharacter{2265}{$\geq$}
@end latex

@node Top
@top Top section

@menu
* chapter::               chapter

Menu comment

* description:chapter2.   Chapter 2
@end menu


@node chapter
@chapter chapter

@indent
First para

@noindent
qsddsqkdsqkkmljsqjsqodmmdsqdsmqj dqs sdq sqd sdq dsq sdq sqd sqd sdq sdq 
qsd dsq sdq dsq dssdq sdq sdq sdq dsq sdq dsq dsq sdq dsq sdqsd q

@noindent noindent in para.

@indent unneeded indent

Insertcopying in normal text
@insertcopying

Normal text
@mymacro{}

In example.
@example
@ifset valid
@set validinexample 1
@end ifset
@mymacro{}
@end example

@clear validinexample

@cindex t--ruc
@cindex T--ruc
@cindex .
@cindex ?
@cindex a
@findex t--ruc
@findex T--ruc
@findex .
@findex ?
@findex a

@cindex a---a
@cindex b---b @subentry c---c
@cindex d---dd @subentry e---ee @subentry f---ff

@findex f---aa
@findex f---bb @subentry f---cc
@findex f---ddd @subentry f---eee @subentry ffff

@cindex aaa @seeentry{bbb}
@cindex ddd @seealso{ccc}

@findex f---aaa @seeentry{f---bbb}
@findex f---ddd @seealso{f---ccc}

@cindex aaa @sortas{A---S} @subentry @sortas{B---S1} bbb

@findex xxx @sortas{X---S} @subentry @sortas{X---S1} zzz

@cindex
@findex @w{}

@codeidxindex a @var{index---entry} t@~e --- @^{@dotless{i}}

@trucindex truc

@ifclear valid
@c error with texindex: Bad entry; expected 3 to 5 fields, not 6
@cindex g---gg @subentry h---hh jjj @subentry k---kk @subentry l---ll

@findex f---ggg @subentry f---hhh fjjj @subentry f---kkk @subentry f---lll

@c incorrect order.  Cryptic error in TeX
@c  File ended while scanning use of @initialx.
@cindex @seealso{ccc} ddd

@findex @seealso{f---ccc} f---ddd
@end ifclear

@syncodeindex vr cp

Text@footnote{in footnote
@cindex index entry in footnote

Blah

Blih

@cindex counting entry
}

truc

@printindex truc

codeidx

@printindex codeidx

cp
@printindex cp

fn
@printindex fn

vr
@printindex vr

ky
@printindex ky

pg
@printindex pg

tp
@printindex tp



@footnote{in footnote}

@format
@menu 
* s--ect@comma{}ion:: s--ect@comma{}ion

Menu comment
``simple-double--three---four----''@*

@end menu
@end format

@node s--ect@comma{}ion
@section A section

@menu
* subsection:: 

@detailmenu
In detailmenu

* subsubsection ``simple-double--::
* subsubsection three---four----''::
@end detailmenu
@end menu

@node subsection
@subsection subsection

@menu
* subsubsection ``simple-double--::
* subsubsection three---four----''::
@end menu

@anchor{anchor}

@node subsubsection ``simple-double--
@subsubsection subsubsection ``simple-double--

@node subsubsection three---four----''
@subsubsection three---four----''

@node chapter2
@centerchap chapter 2

@printindex cp
@printindex fn

@contents
@shortcontents
@bye
