@node Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}HTML
@chapter Texinfo::Convert::HTML

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}HTML NAME
@section Texinfo::Convert::HTML NAME

Texinfo::Convert::HTML - Convert Texinfo tree to HTML

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}HTML SYNOPSIS
@section Texinfo::Convert::HTML SYNOPSIS

@verbatim
  my $converter
    = Texinfo::Convert::HTML->converter({'NUMBER_SECTIONS' => 0});

  $converter->output($document);
  $converter->convert($document);
  $converter->convert_tree($tree);
  $converter->output_internal_links(); # HTML only
@end verbatim

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}HTML NOTES
@section Texinfo::Convert::HTML NOTES

The Texinfo Perl module main purpose is to be used in @code{texi2any} to convert
Texinfo to other formats.  There is no promise of API stability.

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}HTML DESCRIPTION
@section Texinfo::Convert::HTML DESCRIPTION

Texinfo::Convert::HTML converts a Texinfo tree to HTML.

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}HTML METHODS
@section Texinfo::Convert::HTML METHODS

@table @asis
@item $converter = Texinfo::Convert::HTML->converter($options)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}HTML $converter = Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}HTML->converter($options)}

Initialize converter from Texinfo to HTML.

The @emph{$options} hash reference holds Texinfo customization options for the
converter.  These options should be Texinfo customization options
that can be passed to the converter.  Most of the customization options are
described in the Texinfo manual or in the customization API manual.  Those
customization options, when appropriate, override the document content.

See @ref{Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}Converter NAME,, Texinfo::Convert::Converter} for more information.

@item $converter->output($document)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}HTML $converter->output($document)}

Convert a Texinfo parsed document @emph{$document} and output the result in files as
described in the Texinfo manual.

@item $result = $converter->convert($document)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}HTML $result = $converter->convert($document)}

Convert a Texinfo parsed document @emph{$document} and return the resulting output.

@item $result = $converter->convert_tree($tree)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}HTML $result = $converter->convert_tree($tree)}

Convert a Texinfo tree portion @emph{$tree} and return the resulting
output.  This function does not try to output a full document but only
portions.  For a full document use @code{convert}.

In general, this function should be called after the converter has been
associated to a document by a call to @code{output} or @code{convert}.

@item $result = $converter->output_internal_links()
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}HTML $result = $converter->output_internal_links()}
@cindex @code{output_internal_links}

Returns text representing the links in the document.  The format should
follow the @code{--internal-links} option of the @code{texi2any}
specification.  This is only supported in (and relevant for) HTML.

@end table

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}HTML AUTHOR
@section Texinfo::Convert::HTML AUTHOR

Patrice Dumas, <pertusus@@free.fr>

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}HTML COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
@section Texinfo::Convert::HTML COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2010- Free Software Foundation, Inc.  See the source file for
all copyright years.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version.

