@node Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}TexinfoXML
@chapter Texinfo::Convert::TexinfoXML

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}TexinfoXML NAME
@section Texinfo::Convert::TexinfoXML NAME

Texinfo::Convert::TexinfoXML - Convert Texinfo tree to TexinfoXML

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}TexinfoXML SYNOPSIS
@section Texinfo::Convert::TexinfoXML SYNOPSIS

@verbatim
  my $converter
    = Texinfo::Convert::TexinfoXML->converter({'NUMBER_SECTIONS' => 0});

  $converter->output($document);
  $converter->convert($document);
  $converter->convert_tree($tree);
@end verbatim

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}TexinfoXML NOTES
@section Texinfo::Convert::TexinfoXML NOTES

The Texinfo Perl module main purpose is to be used in @code{texi2any} to convert
Texinfo to other formats.  There is no promise of API stability.

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}TexinfoXML DESCRIPTION
@section Texinfo::Convert::TexinfoXML DESCRIPTION

Texinfo::Convert::TexinfoXML converts a Texinfo tree to TexinfoXML.

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}TexinfoXML METHODS
@section Texinfo::Convert::TexinfoXML METHODS

@table @asis
@item $converter = Texinfo::Convert::TexinfoXML->converter($options)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}TexinfoXML $converter = Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}TexinfoXML->converter($options)}

Initialize converter from Texinfo to TexinfoXML.

The @emph{$options} hash reference holds Texinfo customization options for the
converter.  These options should be Texinfo customization options
that can be passed to the converter.  Most of the customization options are
described in the Texinfo manual or in the customization API manual.  Those
customization options, when appropriate, override the document content.

See @ref{Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}Converter NAME,, Texinfo::Convert::Converter} for more information.

@item $converter->output($document)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}TexinfoXML $converter->output($document)}

Convert a Texinfo parsed document @emph{$document} and output the result in files as
described in the Texinfo manual.

@item $result = $converter->convert($document)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}TexinfoXML $result = $converter->convert($document)}

Convert a Texinfo parsed document @emph{$document} and return the resulting output.

@item $result = $converter->convert_tree($tree)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}TexinfoXML $result = $converter->convert_tree($tree)}

Convert a Texinfo tree portion @emph{$tree} and return the resulting
output.  This function does not try to output a full document but only
portions.  For a full document use @code{convert}.

In general, this function should be called after the converter has been
associated to a document by a call to @code{output} or @code{convert}.

@end table

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}TexinfoXML AUTHOR
@section Texinfo::Convert::TexinfoXML AUTHOR

Patrice Dumas, <pertusus@@free.fr>

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}TexinfoXML COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
@section Texinfo::Convert::TexinfoXML COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2010- Free Software Foundation, Inc.  See the source file for
all copyright years.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version.

