@node Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}Texinfo
@chapter Texinfo::Convert::Texinfo

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}Texinfo NAME
@section Texinfo::Convert::Texinfo NAME

Texinfo::Convert::Texinfo - Convert a Texinfo tree to Texinfo code

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}Texinfo SYNOPSIS
@section Texinfo::Convert::Texinfo SYNOPSIS

@verbatim
  use Texinfo::Convert::Texinfo qw(convert_to_texinfo);

  my $texinfo_text = convert_to_texinfo($tree);
@end verbatim

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}Texinfo NOTES
@section Texinfo::Convert::Texinfo NOTES

The Texinfo Perl module main purpose is to be used in @code{texi2any} to convert
Texinfo to other formats.  There is no promise of API stability.

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}Texinfo DESCRIPTION
@section Texinfo::Convert::Texinfo DESCRIPTION

@code{Texinfo::Convert::Texinfo} converts a Texinfo tree (described in
@ref{Texinfo@asis{::}Parser NAME,, Texinfo::Parser}) to Texinfo code.  If the Texinfo tree results from
parsing some Texinfo document, The converted Texinfo code should be
exactly the same as the initial document, except that user defined @@-macros
and @code{@@value} are expanded, and some invalid code is discarded.

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}Texinfo METHODS
@section Texinfo::Convert::Texinfo METHODS

@table @asis
@item $texinfo_text = convert_to_texinfo($tree)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}Texinfo $texinfo_text = convert_to_texinfo($tree)}
@cindex @code{convert_to_texinfo}

Converts the Texinfo tree @emph{$tree} to Texinfo code.

@end table

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}Texinfo AUTHOR
@section Texinfo::Convert::Texinfo AUTHOR

Patrice Dumas, <pertusus@@free.fr>

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}Texinfo COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
@section Texinfo::Convert::Texinfo COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2010- Free Software Foundation, Inc.  See the source file for
all copyright years.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version.

