@node Texinfo::Convert::XML
@chapter Texinfo::Convert::XML

@menu
* Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}XML NAME::
* Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}XML SYNOPSIS::
* Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}XML DESCRIPTION::
* Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}XML METHODS::
* Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}XML AUTHOR::
* Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}XML COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE::
@end menu

@node Texinfo::Convert::XML NAME
@section NAME

Texinfo::Convert::XML - Convert Texinfo tree to XML

@node Texinfo::Convert::XML SYNOPSIS
@section SYNOPSIS

@verbatim
  my $converter 
    = Texinfo::Convert::XML->converter({'parser' => $parser});

  $converter->output($tree);
@end verbatim

@node Texinfo::Convert::XML DESCRIPTION
@section DESCRIPTION

Texinfo::Convert::XML converts a Texinfo tree to XML.

@node Texinfo::Convert::XML METHODS
@section METHODS

@table @asis
@item $converter = Texinfo::Convert::XML->converter($options)
@anchor{Texinfo::Convert::XML $converter = Texinfo::Convert::XML->converter($options)}

Initialize an XML converter.  

The @emph{$options} hash reference holds options for the converter.  In
this option hash reference a parser object may be associated with the 
@emph{parser} key.  The other options should be configuration options
described in the Texinfo manual.  Those options, when appropriate,
override the document content.

See @ref{Texinfo::Convert::Converter NAME} for more informations.

@item $converter->output($tree)
@anchor{Texinfo::Convert::XML $converter->output($tree)}

Convert a Texinfo tree @emph{$tree} and output the result in files as
described in the Texinfo manual.

@item $result = $converter->convert($tree)
@anchor{Texinfo::Convert::XML $result = $converter->convert($tree)}

Convert a Texinfo tree @emph{$tree} or tree portion and return 
the resulting output.

@item $result = $converter->convert_tree($tree)
@anchor{Texinfo::Convert::XML $result = $converter->convert_tree($tree)}

Convert a Texinfo tree portion @emph{$tree} and return the resulting 
output.  This function do not try to output a full document but only
portions of document.  For a full document use @code{convert}.

@item $result = $converter->output_internal_links()
@anchor{Texinfo::Convert::XML $result = $converter->output_internal_links()}

Returns text representing the links in the document.  At present the format 
should follow the @code{--internal-links} option of texi2any/makeinfo specification
and this is only relevant for HTML.

@end table

@node Texinfo::Convert::XML AUTHOR
@section AUTHOR

Patrice Dumas, <pertusus@@free.fr>

@node Texinfo::Convert::XML COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
@section COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2012 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at 
your option) any later version.

