@node Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring
@chapter Texinfo::Structuring

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring NAME
@section Texinfo::Structuring NAME

Texinfo::Structuring - information on Texinfo::Parser tree

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring SYNOPSIS
@section Texinfo::Structuring SYNOPSIS

@verbatim
  use Texinfo::Structuring qw(sectioning_structure nodes_tree number_floats
    associate_internal_references split_by_node split_by_section split_pages
    merge_indices sort_indices elements_directions elements_file_directions);

  # $tree is a Texinfo document tree.  $parser is a Texinfo::Parser object.
  # $config is an object implementing the get_conf() method.
  my $registrar = $parser->registered_errors();
  my $sections_root = sectioning_structure ($registrar, $config, $tree);
  my ($labels, $targets_list, $nodes_list) = $parser->labels_information();
  my $parser_information = $parser->global_information();
  my $global_commands = $parser->global_commands_information();
  set_menus_node_directions($registrar, $config, $parser_information,
                            $global_commands, $nodes_list, $labels);
  my $top_node = nodes_tree($registrar, $config, $parser_information,
                            $nodes_list, $labels);
  complete_node_tree_with_menus($registrar, $config, $nodes_list, $top_node);
  my $refs = $parser->internal_references_information();
  check_nodes_are_referenced($registrar, $config, $nodes_list, $top_node,
                             $labels, $refs);
  associate_internal_references($registrar, $parser, $parser_information,
                                $labels, $refs);
  number_floats($parser->floats_information());
  my $tree_units;
  if ($split_at_nodes) {
    $tree_units = split_by_node($tree);
  } else {
    $tree_units = split_by_section($tree);
  }
  split_pages($tree_units, $split);
  elements_directions($config, $labels, $tree_units);
  elements_file_directions($tree_units);

  my $indices_information = $parser->indices_information();
  my $merged_index_entries
     = merge_indices($indices_information);
  my $index_entries_sorted;
  if ($sort_by_letter) {
    $index_entries_sorted = sort_indices($registrar, $config,
                             $merged_index_entries, $indices_information,
                             'by_letter');
  } else {
    $index_entries_sorted = sort_indices($registrar, $config,
                                         $merged_index_entries,
                                         $indices_information);
  }
@end verbatim

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring NOTES
@section Texinfo::Structuring NOTES

The Texinfo Perl module main purpose is to be used in @code{texi2any} to convert
Texinfo to other formats.  There is no promise of API stability.

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring DESCRIPTION
@section Texinfo::Structuring DESCRIPTION

Texinfo::Structuring first allows to collect information on a Texinfo
tree.  In most case, it also requires information from a parser object to
do that job.  Thanks to @code{sectioning_structure} the hierarchy of
sectioning commands is determined.  The directions implied by menus are
determined with @code{set_menus_node_directions}.  The node tree is analysed
with @code{nodes_tree}.  Nodes directions are completed with menu directions
with @code{complete_node_tree_with_menus}.  Floats get their standard
numbering with @code{number_floats} and internal references are matched up
with nodes, floats or anchors with @code{associate_internal_references}.

The following methods depend on the output format, so are usually called
from converters.

It is also possible to associate top-level contents of the tree, which
consist in nodes and sectioning commands with tree unit elements that
group together a node and the next sectioning element.  With
@code{split_by_node} nodes are considered to be the main sectioning elements,
while with @code{split_by_section} the sectioning command elements are the
main elements.  The first mode is typical of Info format, while the second
corresponds to a traditional book.  The elements may be further split in
@emph{pages}, which are not pages as in book pages, but more like web pages,
and hold series of tree unit elements.

The elements may have directions to other elements prepared
by @code{elements_directions}.  @code{elements_file_directions} should also
set direction related to files, provided files are associated with
elements by the user.

@code{merge_indices} may be used to merge indices, which may be sorted
with @code{sort_indices}.

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring METHODS
@section Texinfo::Structuring METHODS

No method is exported in the default case.

Most methods takes a @ref{Texinfo@asis{::}Report NAME,, Texinfo::Report} @code{$registrar} as argument for
error reporting.  Most also require Texinfo customization variables
information, which means an object implementing the @code{get_conf} method, in
practice the main program configuration or a converter
(@ref{Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}Converter Getting and setting customization
variables}).  Other common input arguments such as parser information,
labels or refs are obtained from a parser, see @ref{Texinfo@asis{::}Parser NAME,, Texinfo::Parser}.

@table @asis
@item associate_internal_references($registrar, $customization_information, $parser_information, $labels, $refs)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring associate_internal_references($registrar@comma{} $customization_information@comma{} $parser_information@comma{} $labels@comma{} $refs)}
@cindex @code{associate_internal_references}

Verify that internal references (@code{@@ref} and similar without fourth of
fifth argument and menu entries) have an associated node, anchor or float.
Set the @code{normalized} key in the @code{extra} hash @code{menu_entry_node} hash for
menu entries and in the first argument @code{extra} hash for internal
references @code{@@ref} and similar @@-commands.  Register errors in @emph{$registrar}.

@item check_nodes_are_referenced($registrar, $customization_information, $nodes_list, $top_node, $labels, $refs)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring check_nodes_are_referenced($registrar@comma{} $customization_information@comma{} $nodes_list@comma{} $top_node@comma{} $labels@comma{} $refs)}
@cindex @code{check_nodes_are_referenced}

Check that all the nodes are referenced (in menu, @@*ref or node direction).
Register errors in @emph{$registrar}.

Should be called after @code{complete_node_tree_with_menus} in order to
have the autogenerated menus available.

@item complete_node_tree_with_menus($registrar, $customization_information, $nodes_list, $top_node)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring complete_node_tree_with_menus($registrar@comma{} $customization_information@comma{} $nodes_list@comma{} $top_node)}
@cindex @code{complete_node_tree_with_menus}

Complete nodes directions with menu directions.  Check consistency
of menus, sectionning and nodes direction structures.
Register errors in @emph{$registrar}.

@item elements_directions($customization_information, $labels, $tree_units)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring elements_directions($customization_information@comma{} $labels@comma{} $tree_units)}
@cindex @code{elements_directions}

Directions are set up for the tree unit elements in the array reference
@emph{$tree_units} given in argument.  The corresponding hash is in
@code{@{'structure'@}->@{'directions'@}}
and keys correspond to directions while values are elements.

The following directions are set up:

@table @asis
@item This
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring This}

The element itself.

@item Forward
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring Forward}

Element next.

@item Back
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring Back}

Previous element.

@item NodeForward
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring NodeForward}

Following node element in reading order.  It is the next node, or the
first in menu or the next of the up node.

@item NodeBack
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring NodeBack}

Preceding node element.

@item NodeUp
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring NodeUp}

@item NodeNext
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring NodeNext}

@item NodePrev
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring NodePrev}

The up, next and previous node elements.

@item Up
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring Up}

@item Next
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring Next}

@item Prev
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring Prev}

The up, next and previous section elements.

@item FastBack
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring FastBack}

For top level elements, the previous top level element.  For other
elements the up top level element.  For example, for a chapter element it
is the previous chapter, for a subsection element it is the chapter
element that contains the subsection.

@item FastForward
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring FastForward}

The next top level section element.

@end table

@item elements_file_directions($tree_units)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring elements_file_directions($tree_units)}
@cindex @code{elements_file_directions}

In the directions reference described above for @code{elements_directions},
sets the @emph{PrevFile} and @emph{NextFile} directions to the elements in
previous and following files.

It also sets @emph{FirstInFile*} directions for all the elements by using
the directions of the first element in file.  So, for example,
@emph{FirstInFileNodeNext} is the next node of the first element in
the file of each element.

The API for association of pages/elements to files is not defined yet.

@item @@nodes_list = get_node_node_childs_from_sectioning($node)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring @@nodes_list = get_node_node_childs_from_sectioning($node)}
@cindex @code{get_node_node_childs_from_sectioning}

@emph{$node} is a node tree element.  Find the node @emph{$node} children based
on the sectioning structure.  For the node associated with @code{@@top}
sectioning command, the sections associated with parts are considered.

@item $entry_key = index_entry_sort_string($main_entry, $entry_tree_element, $sortas, $options)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring $entry_key = index_entry_sort_string($main_entry@comma{} $entry_tree_element@comma{} $sortas@comma{} $options)}
@cindex @code{index_entry_sort_string}

Return a string suitable as a sort string, for index entries.
The index entry processed is @emph{$entry_tree_element}, and can be a
@code{@@subentry}.  @emph{$main_entry} is the main index entry tree element
that can be used to gather information.  @emph{$sortas} can be given to
override the sort string (typically obtained from @code{@@sortas}).   The
@emph{$options} are options used for Texinfo to text conversion for
the generation of the sort string, typically obtained from
@ref{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring $option = setup_index_entry_keys_formatting($customization_information),, setup_index_entry_keys_formatting}.

@item $merged_entries = merge_indices($indices_information)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring $merged_entries = merge_indices($indices_information)}
@cindex @code{merge_indices}

Using information returned by @ref{Texinfo@asis{::}Parser $indices_information = $parser->indices_information(),, @code{Texinfo::Parser::indices_information}},
a structure holding all the index entries by index name is returned,
with all the entries of merged indices merged with those of the indice
merged into.

The @emph{$merged_entries} returned is a hash reference whose
keys are the index names and values arrays of index entry structures
described in details in @ref{Texinfo@asis{::}Parser index_entries}.

@item $new_block = new_block_command($content, $parent, $command_name)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring $new_block = new_block_command($content@comma{} $parent@comma{} $command_name)}
@cindex @code{new_block_command}

Returns the texinfo tree corresponding to a block command named
@emph{$command_name} with contents @emph{$content} and parent in tree @emph{$parent}.

@item $new_menu = new_complete_node_menu($node, $use_sections)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring $new_menu = new_complete_node_menu($node@comma{} $use_sections)}
@cindex @code{new_complete_node_menu}

Returns a texinfo tree menu for node @emph{$node}, pointing to the children
of the node obtained with the sectioning structure.  If @emph{$use_sections}
is set, use section names for the menu entry names.

@item $detailmenu = new_master_menu($translations, $labels, $menus)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring $detailmenu = new_master_menu($translations@comma{} $labels@comma{} $menus)}
@cindex @code{new_master_menu}

Returns a detailmenu tree element formatted as a master node.
@emph{$translations}, if defined, should be a @ref{Texinfo@asis{::}Translations NAME,, Texinfo::Translations} object and
should also hold customization information. @emph{$menus} is an array
reference containing the regular menus of the Top node.

@item $entry = new_node_menu_entry($node, $use_sections)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring $entry = new_node_menu_entry($node@comma{} $use_sections)}
@cindex @code{new_node_menu_entry}

Returns the texinfo tree corresponding to a single menu entry pointing to
@emph{$node}.  If @emph{$use_sections} is set, use the section name for the menu
entry name.  Returns @code{undef} if the node argument is missing.

@item $top_node = nodes_tree($registrar, $customization_information, $parser_information, $nodes_list, $labels)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring $top_node = nodes_tree($registrar@comma{} $customization_information@comma{} $parser_information@comma{} $nodes_list@comma{} $labels)}
@cindex @code{nodes_tree}

Goes through nodes and set directions.  Returns the top
node.  Register errors in @emph{$registrar}.

This functions sets, in the @code{structure} node element hash:

@table @asis
@item node_up
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring node_up}

@item node_prev
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring node_prev}

@item node_next
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring node_next}

Up, next and previous directions for the node.

@end table

@item number_floats($float_information)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring number_floats($float_information)}
@cindex @code{number_floats}

Number the floats as described in the Texinfo manual.  Sets
the @emph{number} key in the @code{structure} hash of the float
tree elements.

@item $command_name = section_level_adjusted_command_name($element)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring $command_name = section_level_adjusted_command_name($element)}
@cindex @code{section_level_adjusted_command_name}

Return the sectioning command name corresponding to the sectioning
element @emph{$element}, adjusted in order to take into account raised
and lowered sections, when needed.

@item $sections_root, $sections_list = sectioning_structure($registrar, $customization_information, $tree)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring $sections_root@comma{} $sections_list = sectioning_structure($registrar@comma{} $customization_information@comma{} $tree)}
@cindex @code{sectioning_structure}

This function goes through the tree and gather information on the document
structure for sectioning commands.  It returns @emph{$sections_root} the root
of the sectioning commands tree and a reference on the sections elements
list.  Errors are registered in @emph{$registrar}.

It sets section elements @code{structure} hash values:

@table @asis
@item section_level
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring section_level}

The level in the sectioning tree hierarchy.  0 is for @code{@@top} or
@code{@@part}, 1 for @code{@@chapter}, @code{@@appendix}...  This level is corrected
by @code{@@raisesections} and @code{@@lowersections}.

@item section_number
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring section_number}

The sectioning element number.

@item section_childs
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring section_childs}

An array holding sectioning elements children of the element.

@item section_up
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring section_up}

@item section_prev
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring section_prev}

@item section_next
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring section_next}

The up, previous and next sectioning elements.

@item toplevel_next
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring toplevel_next}

@item toplevel_prev
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring toplevel_prev}

@item toplevel_up
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring toplevel_up}

The next and previous and up sectioning elements of toplevel sectioning
elements (like @code{@@top}, @code{@@chapter}, @code{@@appendix}), not taking into
account @code{@@part} elements.

@end table

@item set_menus_node_directions($registrar, $customization_information, $parser_information, $global_commands, $nodes_list, $labels);
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring set_menus_node_directions($registrar@comma{} $customization_information@comma{} $parser_information@comma{} $global_commands@comma{} $nodes_list@comma{} $labels);}
@cindex @code{set_menus_node_directions}

Goes through menu and set directions.  Register errors in @emph{$registrar}.

This functions sets, in the @code{structure} node element hash reference:

@table @asis
@item menu_child
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring menu_child}

The first child in the menu of the node.

@item menu_up
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring menu_up}

@item menu_next
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring menu_next}

@item menu_prev
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring menu_prev}

Up, next and previous directions as set in menus.

@end table

@item $option = setup_index_entry_keys_formatting($customization_information)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring $option = setup_index_entry_keys_formatting($customization_information)}
@cindex @code{setup_index_entry_keys_formatting}

Return options for conversion of Texinfo to text relevant for index keys sorting.

@item ($index_entries_sorted, $index_entries_sort_strings) = sort_indices($registrar, $customization_information, $merged_index_entries, $indices_information, $sort_by_letter)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring ($index_entries_sorted@comma{} $index_entries_sort_strings) = sort_indices($registrar@comma{} $customization_information@comma{} $merged_index_entries@comma{} $indices_information@comma{} $sort_by_letter)}
@cindex @code{sort_indices}

If @emph{$sort_by_letter} is set, sort by letter, otherwise sort all
entries together.  In both cases, a hash reference with index names
as keys @emph{$index_entries_sorted} is returned.

When sorting by letter, an array reference of letter hash references is
associated with each index name.  Each letter hash reference has two
keys, a @emph{letter} key with the letter, and an @emph{entries} key with an array
reference of sorted index entries beginning with the letter.

When simply sorting, the array of the sorted index entries is associated
with the index name.

@emph{$index_entries_sort_strings} is a hash reference associating the index
entries with the strings that were used to sort them.

Register errors in @emph{$registrar}.

@item $tree_units = split_by_node($tree)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring $tree_units = split_by_node($tree)}
@cindex @code{split_by_node}

Returns a reference array of tree units where a node is associated to
the following sectioning commands.  Sectioning commands without nodes
are also with the previous node, while nodes without sectioning commands
are alone in their tree units.

Tree units are regular tree elements with type @emph{unit}, the associated
nodes and sectioning tree elements are in the array associated with the
@code{contents} key.  The associated elements have a @emph{associated_unit} key
set in the @code{structure} hash that points to the associated tree unit.

Tree units have directions in the @code{structure}
hash reference, namely @emph{unit_next} and @emph{unit_prev} pointing to the
previous and the next tree unit.

In the @code{extra} hash reference, tree units have:

@table @asis
@item unit_command
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring unit_command}

The node command associated with the element.

@end table

@item $tree_units = split_by_section($tree)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring $tree_units = split_by_section($tree)}
@cindex @code{split_by_section}

Similarly with @code{split_by_node}, returns an array of tree units.  This
time, lone nodes are associated with the previous sections and lone
sections makes up a tree unit.

The @code{structure} and @code{extra} hash keys set are the same, except that
@emph{unit_command} is the sectioning command associated with the element.

@item $pages = split_pages($tree_units, $split)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring $pages = split_pages($tree_units@comma{} $split)}
@cindex @code{split_pages}

The tree units from the array reference argument have an extra
@emph{first_in_page} value set in the @code{structure} hash reference to
the first tree unit in the group, and based on the value of @emph{$split}.
The possible values for @emph{$split} are

@table @asis
@item chapter
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring chapter}

The tree units are split at chapter or other toplevel sectioning tree units.

@item node
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring node}

Each element has its own page.

@item section
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring section}

The tree units are split at sectioning commands below chapter.

@item value evaluating to false
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring value evaluating to false}

No splitting, only one page is returned, holding all the tree units.

@end table

@item warn_non_empty_parts($registrar, $customization_information, $global_commands)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring warn_non_empty_parts($registrar@comma{} $customization_information@comma{} $global_commands)}
@cindex @code{warn_non_empty_parts}

Register a warning in @emph{$registrar} for each @code{@@part} that is not empty
in @emph{$global_commands} information (typically obtained by calling
@code{global_commands_information()} on a parser).

@end table

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring SEE ALSO
@section Texinfo::Structuring SEE ALSO

@url{http://www.gnu.org/s/texinfo/manual/texinfo/, Texinfo manual},
@ref{Texinfo@asis{::}Parser NAME,, Texinfo::Parser}.

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring AUTHOR
@section Texinfo::Structuring AUTHOR

Patrice Dumas, <pertusus@@free.fr>

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
@section Texinfo::Structuring COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2010- Free Software Foundation, Inc.  See the source file for
all copyright years.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version.

