@node Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}Unicode
@chapter Texinfo::Convert::Unicode

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}Unicode NAME
@section Texinfo::Convert::Unicode NAME

Texinfo::Convert::Unicode - Representation as Unicode characters

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}Unicode SYNOPSIS
@section Texinfo::Convert::Unicode SYNOPSIS

@verbatim
  use Texinfo::Convert::Unicode qw(unicode_accent encoded_accents
                                   unicode_text);
  use Texinfo::Convert::Text qw(convert_to_text);

  my ($innermost_contents, $stack)
      = Texinfo::Convert::Utils::find_innermost_accent_contents($accent);
  
  my $formatted_accents = encoded_accents ($converter,
                 convert_to_text($innermost_contents), $stack, $encoding,
                        \&Texinfo::Text::ascii_accent_fallback);

  my $accent_text = unicode_accent('e', $accent_command);
@end verbatim

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}Unicode NOTES
@section Texinfo::Convert::Unicode NOTES

The Texinfo Perl module main purpose is to be used in @code{texi2any} to convert
Texinfo to other formats.  There is no promise of API stability.

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}Unicode DESCRIPTION
@section Texinfo::Convert::Unicode DESCRIPTION

@code{Texinfo::Convert::Unicode} provides methods dealing with Unicode representation
and conversion of Unicode code points, to be used in converters.

When an encoding supported in Texinfo is given as argument of a method of the
module, the accented letters or characters returned by the method should only
be represented by Unicode code points if it is known that Perl should manage
to convert the Unicode code points to encoded characters in the encoding
character set.  Note that the actual conversion is done by Perl, not by the
module.

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}Unicode METHODS
@section Texinfo::Convert::Unicode METHODS

@table @asis
@item $result = brace_no_arg_command($command_name, $encoding)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}Unicode $result = brace_no_arg_command($command_name@comma{} $encoding)}
@cindex @code{brace_no_arg_command}

Return the Unicode representation of a command with brace and no argument
@emph{$command_name} (like @code{@@bullet@{@}}, @code{@@aa@{@}} or @code{@@guilsinglleft@{@}}),
or @code{undef} if the Unicode representation cannot be converted to encoding
@emph{$encoding}.

@item $possible_conversion = check_unicode_point_conversion($arg, $output_debug)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}Unicode $possible_conversion = check_unicode_point_conversion($arg@comma{} $output_debug)}
@cindex @code{check_unicode_point_conversion}

Check that it is possible to output actual UTF-8 binary bytes
corresponding to the Unicode code point string @emph{$arg} (such as
@code{201D}).  Perl gives a warning and will not output UTF-8 for
Unicode non-characters such as U+10FFFF.  If the optional
@emph{$output_debug} argument is set, a debugging output warning
is emitted if the test of the conversion failed.
Returns 1 if the conversion is possible and can be attempted,
0 otherwise.

@item $result = encoded_accents($converter, $text, $stack, $encoding, $format_accent, $set_case)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}Unicode $result = encoded_accents($converter@comma{} $text@comma{} $stack@comma{} $encoding@comma{} $format_accent@comma{} $set_case)}
@cindex @code{encoded_accents}

@emph{$encoding} is the encoding the accented characters should be encoded to.  If
@emph{$encoding} not set, @emph{$result} is set to @code{undef}.  Nested accents and
their content are passed with @emph{$text} and @emph{$stack}.  @emph{$text} is the text
appearing within nested accent commands.  @emph{$stack} is an array reference
holding the nested accents texinfo tree elements.  In general, @emph{$text} is
the formatted contents and @emph{$stack} the stack returned by
@ref{Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}Utils (\@@contents@comma{}
\@@accent_commands) = find_innermost_accent_contents($element),, Texinfo::Convert::Utils::find_innermost_accent_contents}.  The function
tries to convert as much as possible the accents to @emph{$encoding} starting from the
innermost accent.

@emph{$format_accent} is a function reference that is used to format the accent
commands if there is no encoded character available at some point of the
conversion of the @emph{$stack}.  @emph{$converter} is a converter object optionaly
used by @emph{$format_accent}.  It may be @code{undef} if there is no need of
converter object in @emph{$format_accent}.

If @emph{$set_case} is positive, the result is upper-cased, while if it is negative,
the result is lower-cased.

@item $width = string_width($string)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}Unicode $width = string_width($string)}
@cindex @code{string_width}

Return the string width, taking into account the fact that some characters
have a zero width (like composing accents) while some have a width of 2
(most chinese characters, for example).

@item $result = unicode_accent($text, $accent_command)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}Unicode $result = unicode_accent($text@comma{} $accent_command)}
@cindex @code{unicode_accent}

@emph{$text} is the text appearing within an accent command.  @emph{$accent_command}
should be a Texinfo tree element corresponding to an accent command taking
an argument.  The function returns the Unicode representation of the accented
character.

@item $is_decoded = unicode_point_decoded_in_encoding($encoding, $unicode_point)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}Unicode $is_decoded = unicode_point_decoded_in_encoding($encoding@comma{} $unicode_point)}
@cindex @code{unicode_point_decoded_in_encoding}

Return true if the @emph{$unicode_point} will be encoded in the encoding
@emph{$encoding}.  The @emph{$unicode_point} should be specified as a four letter
string describing an hexadecimal number with letters in upper case
(such as @code{201D}).  Tables are used to determine if the @emph{$unicode_point}
will be encoded, when the encoding does not cover the whole Unicode range.

If the encoding is not supported in Texinfo, the result will always be false.

@item $result = unicode_text($text, $in_code)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}Unicode $result = unicode_text($text@comma{} $in_code)}
@cindex @code{unicode_text}

Return @emph{$text} with dashes and quotes corresponding, for example to @code{---} or
@code{'}, represented as Unicode code points.  If @emph{$in_code} is set, the text is
considered to be in code style.

@end table

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}Unicode AUTHOR
@section Texinfo::Convert::Unicode AUTHOR

Patrice Dumas, <pertusus@@free.fr>

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}Unicode COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
@section Texinfo::Convert::Unicode COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2010- Free Software Foundation, Inc.  See the source file for
all copyright years.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version.

