@node Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}DocBook
@chapter Texinfo::Convert::DocBook

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}DocBook NAME
@section Texinfo::Convert::DocBook NAME

Texinfo::Convert::DocBook - Convert Texinfo tree to DocBook

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}DocBook SYNOPSIS
@section Texinfo::Convert::DocBook SYNOPSIS

@verbatim
  my $converter
    = Texinfo::Convert::DocBook->converter({'NUMBER_SECTIONS' => 0});

  $converter->output($document);
  $converter->convert($document);
  $converter->convert_tree($tree);
@end verbatim

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}DocBook NOTES
@section Texinfo::Convert::DocBook NOTES

The Texinfo Perl module main purpose is to be used in @code{texi2any} to convert
Texinfo to other formats.  There is no promise of API stability.

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}DocBook DESCRIPTION
@section Texinfo::Convert::DocBook DESCRIPTION

Texinfo::Convert::DocBook converts a Texinfo tree to DocBook.

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}DocBook METHODS
@section Texinfo::Convert::DocBook METHODS

@table @asis
@item $converter = Texinfo::Convert::DocBook->converter($options)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}DocBook $converter = Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}DocBook->converter($options)}

Initialize converter from Texinfo to DocBook.

The @emph{$options} hash reference holds Texinfo customization options for the
converter.  These options should be Texinfo customization options
that can be passed to the converter.  Most of the customization options are
described in the Texinfo manual or in the customization API manual.  Those
customization options, when appropriate, override the document content.

See @ref{Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}Converter NAME,, Texinfo::Convert::Converter} for more information.

@item $converter->output($document)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}DocBook $converter->output($document)}

Convert a Texinfo parsed document @emph{$document} and output the result in files as
described in the Texinfo manual.

@item $result = $converter->convert($document)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}DocBook $result = $converter->convert($document)}

Convert a Texinfo parsed document @emph{$document} and return the resulting output.

@item $result = $converter->convert_tree($tree)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}DocBook $result = $converter->convert_tree($tree)}

Convert a Texinfo tree portion @emph{$tree} and return the resulting
output.  This function does not try to output a full document but only
portions.  For a full document use @code{convert}.

In general, this function should be called after the converter has been
associated to a document by a call to @code{output} or @code{convert}.

@end table

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}DocBook AUTHOR
@section Texinfo::Convert::DocBook AUTHOR

Patrice Dumas, <pertusus@@free.fr>

@node Texinfo@asis{::}Convert@asis{::}DocBook COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
@section Texinfo::Convert::DocBook COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2010- Free Software Foundation, Inc.  See the source file for
all copyright years.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version.

