@node Texinfo@asis{::}ManipulateTree
@chapter Texinfo::ManipulateTree

@node Texinfo@asis{::}ManipulateTree NAME
@section Texinfo::ManipulateTree NAME

Texinfo::ManipulateTree - Texinfo modules common tree manipulation functions

@node Texinfo@asis{::}ManipulateTree SYNOPSIS
@section Texinfo::ManipulateTree SYNOPSIS

@verbatim
  use Texinfo::ManipulateTree;
@end verbatim

@node Texinfo@asis{::}ManipulateTree NOTES
@section Texinfo::ManipulateTree NOTES

The Texinfo Perl module main purpose is to be used in @code{texi2any} to convert
Texinfo to other formats.  There is no promise of API stability.

@node Texinfo@asis{::}ManipulateTree DESCRIPTION
@section Texinfo::ManipulateTree DESCRIPTION

@code{Texinfo::ManipulateTree} contains methods for copying and modifying the
Texinfo tree used for default conversion to output formats.

For optional tree transformation, see @ref{Texinfo@asis{::}Transformations NAME,, Texinfo::Transformations}.

@node Texinfo@asis{::}ManipulateTree METHODS
@section Texinfo::ManipulateTree METHODS

The Texinfo tree and Texinfo tree elements used in argument of some functions
are documented in @ref{Texinfo@asis{::}Parser TEXINFO TREE}.  When customization
information is needed, an object that defines @code{get_conf} is
expected, normally a @ref{Texinfo@asis{::}Document Getting customization
options values registered in document} object.

@table @asis
@item move_index_entries_after_items_in_tree($tree)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}ManipulateTree move_index_entries_after_items_in_tree($tree)}
@cindex @code{move_index_entries_after_items_in_tree}

In @code{@@enumerate} and @code{@@itemize} from the tree, move index entries
appearing just before @code{@@item} after the @code{@@item}.  Comment lines
between index entries are moved too.

@item protect_colon_in_tree($tree)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}ManipulateTree protect_colon_in_tree($tree)}

@item protect_node_after_label_in_tree($tree)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}ManipulateTree protect_node_after_label_in_tree($tree)}
@cindex @code{protect_colon_in_tree}
@cindex @code{protect_node_after_label_in_tree}

Protect colon with @code{protect_colon_in_tree} and characters that
are special in node names after a label in menu entries (tab
dot and comma) with @code{protect_node_after_label_in_tree}.
The protection is achieved by putting protected characters
in @code{@@asis@{@}}.

@item protect_comma_in_tree($tree)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}ManipulateTree protect_comma_in_tree($tree)}
@cindex @code{protect_comma_in_tree}

Protect comma characters, replacing @code{,} with @@comma@{@} in tree.

@item protect_first_parenthesis($element)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}ManipulateTree protect_first_parenthesis($element)}
@cindex @code{protect_first_parenthesis}

Modify @emph{$element} contents by protecting the first parenthesis.
If @emph{$element} is undef a fatal error with a backtrace will be emitted.

@item relate_index_entries_to_table_items_in_tree($document)
@anchor{Texinfo@asis{::}ManipulateTree relate_index_entries_to_table_items_in_tree($document)}
@cindex @code{relate_index_entries_to_table_items_in_tree}

In tables, relate index entries preceding and following an
entry with said item.  Reference one of them in the entry's
@code{entry_associated_element}.

@end table

@node Texinfo@asis{::}ManipulateTree SEE ALSO
@section Texinfo::ManipulateTree SEE ALSO

@ref{Texinfo@asis{::}Document NAME,, Texinfo::Document}, @ref{Texinfo@asis{::}Structuring NAME,, Texinfo::Structuring}, @ref{Texinfo@asis{::}Transformations NAME,, Texinfo::Transformations}.

@node Texinfo@asis{::}ManipulateTree AUTHOR
@section Texinfo::ManipulateTree AUTHOR

Patrice Dumas, <pertusus@@free.fr>

@node Texinfo@asis{::}ManipulateTree COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
@section Texinfo::ManipulateTree COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2010- Free Software Foundation, Inc.  See the source file for
all copyright years.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version.

